Docs: Revisit Manage Dashboard docs for new UI (#75840)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/dashboards/manage-dashboards/index.md

# Manage dashboards

This topic includes techniques you can use to manage your Grafana dashboards, including:

- [Creating and managing dashboard folders](#create-and-manage-dashboard-folders)
- [Exporting and importing dashboards](#export-and-import-dashboards)
- [Organizing dashboards](#organize-a-dashboard)
- [Troubleshooting dashboards](#troubleshoot-dashboards)

For more information about creating dashboards, refer to [Add and organize panels](../add-organize-panels).

## Browse dashboards

On the Dashboards page, you can browse and manage folders and dashboards, including:

> - Creating folders and dashboards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create folders and dashboards
```

- Move dashboards between folders
- Delete multiple dashboards and folders
- Navigate to a folder
- Manage folder permissions. For more information, see [Dashboard permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/roles-and-permissions/#dashboard-permissions)

{{% admonition type="note" %}}

> As of Grafana 10.2 there is no longer the special 'General' folder. Dashboards without a folder are now shown at the top level along side folders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Grafana 10.2, there is no longer a special **General** folder. Dashboards without a folder are now shown at the top level alongside folders.
```

{{% /admonition %}}

## Create a dashboard folder

Folders help you organize and group dashboards, which is useful when you have many dashboards or multiple teams using the same Grafana instance.

> > **Before you begin:** Ensure you have Editor or greater permission to create folders. For more information about dashboard permissions, refer to [Dashboard permissions][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Before you begin:** Ensure you have Editor permissions or greater to create folders. For more information about dashboard permissions, refer to [Dashboard permissions][].
```

Folders help you organize and group dashboards, which is useful when you have many dashboards or multiple teams using the same Grafana instance.

**Before you begin:**

- Ensure that you have Grafana Admin or Super Admin permissions. For more information about dashboard permissions, refer to [Dashboard permissions][].
> **Before you begin:** Ensure you have Editor or greater permission to create folders. For more information about dashboard permissions, refer to [Dashboard permissions][].

**To create a dashboard folder:**

1. Sign in to Grafana.
1. Click **Dashboards** in the left-side menu.
1. On the Dashboards page, click **New** and select **New folder** in the dropdown.
1. Enter a unique name and click **Create**.

>    Do not use the name of a folder that has already been provisioned (such as "General") and avoid special characters (except underscores and hyphens).

Reviewer: I know we don't need the warning about the General folder, but are special characters okay now?

Author: Maybe my understanding of what 'special characters' are is limited, but I'm not aware of such a restriction. To be honest, I'm not sure if there ever was a restriction on this...

<img width="763" alt="Screenshot 2023-10-09 at 10 56 38 am" src="https://github.com/grafana/grafana/assets/46142/8e20c7ce-9a1d-42f6-80a7-85f2b797fd18">

Reviewer: This had come up on a [support ticket](https://github.com/grafana/support-escalations/issues/5706). There was specifically an issue with folks putting slashes in folder names. So maybe that's the only limitation?

Author: Ahhh - good catch. Yes, I believe there is a limitation with Alerting is that _Alerts_ cannot be placed in folders with slashes in them. It would be good to mention that here.

<img width="451" alt="Screenshot 2023-10-10 at 3 18 59 pm" src="https://github.com/grafana/grafana/assets/46142/3cacb432-acb5-4345-8551-d99293d570b3">

> 1. Click **Dashboards** in the left-side menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Dashboards** in the main menu.
```

> 1. Click the pencil icon labelled **"Edit title"** in the header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the pencil icon labelled **Edit title** in the header and update the name of the folder.
```

### Folder permissions

> You can assign permissions to a folder. Any permissions you assign are inherited by the dashboards in the folder. You can assign permissions to **Organization Roles**, **Teams**, and **Users**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can assign permissions to a folder. Any permissions you assign are inherited by the dashboards in the folder. You can assign permissions to organization roles, teams, and users.
```

Author: Roles, Teams, and Users are discrete 'nouns' that permissions can be assigned to - It seems like these should be bolded at least?

<img width="411" alt="Screenshot 2023-10-09 at 10 59 13 am" src="https://github.com/grafana/grafana/assets/46142/44c0c4b3-2901-437b-9622-1d7b3947f3b1">

Reviewer: So these are nouns, but they aren't proper nouns (people, places, product names). Also, we're not making a direct reference to the UI (e.g., Select **Role** in the drop-down list) and once we pluralize them, we can't be talking about the specific UI element anymore because the UI element isn't a plural. You'll see this pattern in the relevant docs to these areas, for example, [Team management](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/team-management/) for example), where the term "team" isn't capitalized unless we're referring to it in the UI, because after that we're just talking about the generic term. 

If you really want them to be bold/caps, the sentence would need to be rewritten in such a way that you're basically referring to the UI. e.g., "You can assign permissions to various entities by selecting **Role**, **Team**, or **User** in the drop-down list." But I think that's a lot clunkier.

Author: That makes sense - thank you for explaining!

> **To modify permissions on a folder:**

Reviewer: "of a folder" also works if you prefer.

```suggestion
**To modify permissions for a folder:**
```

> 1. Click **Dashboards** in the left-side menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Dashboards** in the main menu.
```

1. Navigate to the folder by selecting it in the list, or searching for it.

> 1. On the folder's page, click **Folder actions** and select **Manage permissions** in the dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the folder's page, click **Folder actions** and select **Manage permissions** in the drop-down.
```

> 1. Update the permissions as desired. Changes are saved automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the permissions as desired. 

Changes are saved automatically.
```

## Browse dashboards

On the **Dashboards** page, you can browse and manage folders and dashboards. This includes the options to:

- Create folders and dashboards
- Move dashboards between folders
- Delete multiple dashboards and folders
- Navigate to a folder
- Manage folder permissions. For more information, refer to [Dashboard permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/roles-and-permissions/#dashboard-permissions).

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
As of Grafana 10.2, there is no longer a special **General** folder. Dashboards without a folder are now shown at the top level alongside folders.
{{% /admonition %}}

## Create a dashboard folder

Folders help you organize and group dashboards, which is useful when you have many dashboards or multiple teams using the same Grafana instance.

> **Before you begin:** Ensure you have Editor permissions or greater to create folders. For more information about dashboard permissions, refer to [Dashboard permissions][].

**To create a dashboard folder:**

1. Click **Dashboards** in the main menu.
1. On the **Dashboards** page, click **New** and select **New folder** in the drop-down.

> 1. Enter a unique name and click **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter a unique name and click **Create**.

  Don't use slashes (\ /) in folder names.
```

Author: @imatwawana I know this has been going on for a while 😅  but, I pushed up another take on this as a proper disclaimer about this restriction irt alerts. Let me know your thoughts.

# Manage dashboards

This topic includes techniques you can use to manage your Grafana dashboards, including:

- [Creating and managing dashboard folders](#create-and-manage-dashboard-folders)
- [Exporting and importing dashboards](#export-and-import-dashboards)
- [Organizing dashboards](#organize-a-dashboard)
- [Troubleshooting dashboards](#troubleshoot-dashboards)

For more information about creating dashboards, refer to [Add and organize panels](../add-organize-panels).

## Browse dashboards

On the **Dashboards** page, you can browse and manage folders and dashboards. This includes the options to:

- Create folders and dashboards
- Move dashboards between folders
- Delete multiple dashboards and folders
- Navigate to a folder

> - Manage folder permissions. For more information, refer to [Dashboard permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/roles-and-permissions/#dashboard-permissions).

Reviewer: Changing latest to syntax for version interpolation. 
```suggestion
- Manage folder permissions. For more information, refer to [Dashboard permissions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/administration/roles-and-permissions/#dashboard-permissions).
```

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
As of Grafana 10.2, there is no longer a special **General** folder. Dashboards without a folder are now shown at the top level alongside folders.
{{% /admonition %}}

## Create a dashboard folder

Folders help you organize and group dashboards, which is useful when you have many dashboards or multiple teams using the same Grafana instance.

> **Before you begin:** Ensure you have Editor permissions or greater to create folders. For more information about dashboard permissions, refer to [Dashboard permissions][].

**To create a dashboard folder:**

1. Click **Dashboards** in the main menu.
1. On the **Dashboards** page, click **New** and select **New folder** in the drop-down.
1. Enter a unique name and click **Create**.

When you save a dashboard, you can either select a folder for the dashboard to be saved in or create a new folder.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}

> Alerts cannot be placed in folders with slashes (\ /) in the name. If you wish to place Alerts in the folder, do not use slashes in the folder name.

Reviewer: I like this edit, but should we not also have it as a note at the creation step, when you're actually setting a folder name?
```suggestion
Alerts cannot be placed in folders with slashes (\ /) in the name. If you wish to place alerts in the folder, do not use slashes in the folder name.
```

Reviewer: Apologies! I was seeing the #Manage dashboards heading and not realizing that was in red and thus no longer there. This is fine!

> 1. Click **Dashboards** in the left-side menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Dashboards** in the main menu.
```

1. Open the dashboard you want to export.
1. Click the **Share** icon in the top navigation bar.
1. Click **Export**.

> - If you are exporting the dashboard to use in another instance, with different data source UIDs, select the **Export for sharing externally** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you're exporting the dashboard to use in another instance, with different data source UIDs, enable the **Export for sharing externally** switch.
```
